A solution contains 35% hydrochloric acid by mass. This means that
100g of the water was added to 35g of hydrochloric acid
100ml of this solution contains 35g of hydrochloric acid
100ml of this solution contains 35ml of hydrochloric acid
100g of the solution contains 35g of hydrochloric acid
4
A solution with 35% hydrochloric acid by mass means that 35% of total mass, or the solution, is of hydrochloric acid. This corresponds to d). Don’t be fooled by a); in a) the percent of hydrochloric acid is actually 35g / (100g + 35g) * 100 = 25.9%.
Which of the following are NOT considered driving forces for a solution
Formation of ions in solution
Formation of gas
Formation of precipitate
Formation of a molecular substance
1
The three driving forces are formation of gas, precipitate, or molecular substance. Formation of ions is not a driving force.
How would one increase the concentration of an unsaturated solution?
Increasing temperature
Evaporating some solvent
Adding more solvent
Increasing pressure
2
Evaporating more solvent increases the proportion of solute, which is synonymous with an increasing concentration. Increasing temperature wouldn’t necessarily increase the concentration. Adding more solvent would decrease the concentration, and increasing pressure would have no effect.
Based on reference table G, when 100g of water that is saturated with KNO3 at 70 celsius is cooled to 25 celsius, how many grams of KNO3 will precipitate out?
83g
88g
93g
103g
3
At 70 celsius, there is about 133g of KNO3. At 25 celsius, there is about 40g. 133g - 40g = 93g.
Which of the following will precipitate out of water?
Ag2SO4
AgNO3
AgClO3
TiF4
1
Looking at table F, Ag is one of the exceptions to SO4 being soluble, thus Ag2SO4 will precipitate. Likewise, table F can be used to eliminate the other answer choices as well.
How does the presence of solute affect vapor pressure?
Vapor pressure stays constant
Vapor pressure increases
Vapor pressure decreases
Vapor pressure changes randomly in the presence of solute
3
The presence of solute decreases the available surface area of evaporation. Thus, the rate of evaporation will decrease, also lowering vapor pressure. In short, solute particles get in the way of evaporation.
How does the presence of solute affect boiling point?
Boiling point stays constant
Boiling point increases
Boiling point decreases
Boiling point changes randomly in the presence of solute
2
We know that VP = AP at BP (vapor pressure = air pressure at boiling point). We also know solute decreases air pressure. So if VP decreases, more heat is needed to reach VP = AP. In short, solute particles interfere with bubble formation and bubbles rising.
How does the presence of solute affect freezing point?
Freezing point stays constant
Freezing point increases
Freezing point decreases
Freezing point changes randomly in the presence of solute
3
Solute particles interfere with crystallization because solute particles don’t fit in the tightly knit lattice. So, a lower temperature is needed for freezing to occur. 
For every mole of solute added, how much does boiling point change?
Decreases by 0.52 celsius
Increases by 0.52 celsius
Decreases by 1.86 celsius
Increases by 1.86 celsius
2
We know solute increases boiling point. For every mole of solute, the boiling point will increase by 0.52 celsius.
For every mole of solute added, how does freezing point change?
Decreases by 0.52 celsius
Increases by 0.52 celsius
Decreases by 1.86 celsius
Increases by 1.86 celsius
3
We know freezing point depression occurs when solute is added. For every mole of solute, the freezing point will decrease by 1.86 celsius.
What do colligative properties NOT depend on?
Type of particles
Ions
Number of solute particles
Number of moles of solute particles
1
Colligative properties are all about the number of solute particles, which can differ if the compounds dissociate in solution (d) and c) are the same). The type of particle has no effect.
Which of the following is least soluble at 40 celsius?
SO2
Kl
NaNO3
KClO3
1
Looking at table G, at 40 celsius, we want to find the lowest line. This is SO2.
Which solution is the most concentrated?
1 mole of solute dissolved in 3 liters of solution
1 mole of solute dissolved in 1 liter of solution
5 moles of solute dissolved in 4 liters of solution
4 moles of solute dissolved in 8 liters of solution
3
Based on ratios, 5 moles of solute dissolved in 4 liters has the biggest ratio out of all (5:4 compared to 1:3, 1:1, 4:8), thus also being the most concentrated.
Which of the following is true?
NaCl dissolves when it wants
NaCl is an electrolyte and has 1 mole of solute particles
NaCl isn’t an electrolyte
NaCl is an electrolyte and has 2 moles of solute particles
4
NaCl is an electrolyte because it dissolves into 2 ions (thus having 2 moles of solute particles). 
Which of the following is true?
Barium nitrate and potassium carbonate react and form a precipitate of BaCo3
Phosphoric acid and nickel (ii) chloride don’t react
Sodium acetate and potassium iodide react to form NaI
Ammonium chromate and aluminum nitrate don’t react
1
The ions in reaction are Ba +2, NO3 -1, K +1, Co3 -2. These combine in a double replacement to form BaCo3 and KNo3. BaCo3 is a precipitate (check the reference tables).
