Photons act as a … 
Wave
Particle
Both
Neither
3
Photons act as both a wave and a particle in a famous theory called wave-particle duality. Photons, which are released when electrons fall from higher to lower energy levels, have properties that are like waves and particles, which creates this dual definition. It is important to note that electrons also act as waves and particles. 
Which of the following is an excited electron configuration for an atom?
2-8-2
2-3-1
2-8-3
2-7
2
2-3-1 is an excited electron configuration. Since this particular atom has 6 electrons, in the ground state, it would be 2-4, since the second principal energy level must fill with 8 electrons before it can proceed to fill the third energy level. The fact that the electron configuration is 2-3-1 means that the atom is excited.
What are the four letters which represent the four different types of atomic orbitals?
ABCD
SPDF
SPFD
SDPF
2
The answer is SPDF. Note that the S, P, D, F orbitals hold 2, 6, 10, 14 electrons respectively.
The Bohr model of the atom was the first we attempted to use to describe the atom. How did this model theorize that electrons moved?
Electrons move in orbitals, which are high probability regions for electrons.
Electrons move in circles, which are high probability region for electrons.
Electrons move in orbits, which are concentric circular paths.
Electrons move in circles, which are concentric circular paths.
3
The answer is “Electrons move in orbits, which are concentric circular paths”. The Bohr model believed that there were concentric orbits. However, this theory seemed only to work for Hydrogen, and was later disproved.
Energy in the form of photons is released when …
Electrons move down energy levels.
Electrons move up energy levels.
Electrons continuously orbit their energy levels.
A chemical reaction occurs.
1
The answer is “Electrons move down energy levels”. Photons are released when energy moves down energy levels, creating the characteristic bright line spectrum.
What is the Noble Gas core electron configuration for an atom of Rb (Rubidium)?
[Ar]5s1
[Ar]5s2
[Kr]5s1
[Kr]5s2
3
The noble gas electron configuration allows us to locate the nearest noble gas and simply “add” electrons in the correct format as needed. In this case, Rubidium is only one electron away from Krypton, a noble gas. Since the extra electron is “5s1” we add that to the end of [Kr] and we are done. The answer is “[Kr]5s1”.
In atoms, the bright line spectra illustrates …
Identical energy levels of electrons by illustrating the different colors that are given off.
Identical energy levels of electrons by illustrating the identical colors that are given off.
Different energy levels of electrons by illustrating the different colors that are given off.
Different energy levels of electrons by illustrating the identical colors that are given off.
3
The answer is “Different energy levels of electrons by illustrating the different colors that are given off.” Each atom can only give off a certain light, creating the characteristic bright line spectrum that we know of.
Which Reference Table can solve almost every periodic trend question?
Periodic Table of the Elements
Table R
Table S
Table T
3
The answer is Table S. Whenever one has any sort of question on periodic trends and can utilize the Reference Tables, one should consult Table S to ensure that they get the question correct. However, it is still advised that one should understand the motivations behind the periodic trends.
Do not use the Chemistry Reference Tables! Atomic radius … 
Increases across a period and increases down a group.
Increases across a period and decreases down a group.
Decreases across a period and increases down a group.
Decreases across a period and decreases down a group.
3
The correct answer is “Decreases across a period and increases down a group.” Across a period, the increasing nuclear charge outweighs the somewhat increasing distance of valence electrons, pulling the electrons closer to the nucleus. This creates a decreasing atomic radius. Down a group however, the distance of the valence electrons far outweighs the increasing nuclear charge, creating an increasing atomic radius.
Do not use the Chemistry Reference Tables! Electronegativity ...
Increases across a period and increases down a group.
Increases across a period and decreases down a group.
Decreases across a period and increases down a group.
Decreases across a period and decreases down a group.
2
The correct answer is “Increase across a period and decrease down a group.” The definition for electronegativity is the attraction for electrons. Thus, across a period, the increasing nuclear charge creates a greater electronegativity. As we go down a group, the electronegativity decreases because the distance of the outermost electrons is now so far away from the nucleus. This distance creates weaker attractions.
How many valence electrons does an atom of sulfur have?
16
6
4
2
2
The correct answer is 6. Sulfur has a completely filled 3s orbital and then has 4 electrons in the 3p section. Note that 16 is the total number of electrons in a sulfur atom, not the number of valence electrons, making it incorrect.
How many valence electrons does an ion of Aluminum have?
3
5
7
8
4
When ions are formed, a stable octet is sought for in order to achieve stability. Thus, Aluminum loses 3 electrons in an effort to gain the stability of a noble gas, Neon. Thus, since all noble gases have 8 valence electrons, and since the Aluminum ion lost electrons to achieve the stability of a noble gas, an ion of Aluminum will have 8 valence electrons.
What element is the most reactive nonmetal?
Chlorine
Oxygen
Sulfur
Fluorine
4
The answer is Fluorine. This is due to the fact that it has the highest electronegativity, making it the most reactive.
Particles are isoelectronic if they have the same number of electrons. Out of the following particles, which 3 are isoelectronic? { Al(+3), Na(+1), F(-1), B(+3) }
F(-1), B(+3) , Al(+3)
Al(+3), Na(+1), B(+3)
Na(+1), F(-1), B(+3)
Al(+3), Na(+1), F(-1)
4
The correct answer is Al(+3), Na(+1), F(-1), which all have 10 electrons.
We have a list of isoelectronic ions: O(-2), F(-1), Na(+1), Mg(+2). How are these ordered when considering size from smallest to largest?
O(-2), F(-1), Mg(+2), Na(+1)
O(-2), F(-1), Na(+1), Mg(+2)
Mg(+2), Na(+1), O(-2), F(-1)
Mg(+2), Na(+1), F(-1),  O(-2)
4
Since all of these ions have the same number of electrons, we must look at which have the greatest nuclear charge to figure out which one will be smallest. Thus, we simply place them in order of reverse strength in nuclear charge. Greater nuclear charge will pull the electrons closer to the nucleus, creating a smaller ion.
